docs(blog): kaggle competition using IbisML (#9505)
ibis-project/ibis: docs/posts/ibisml/index.qmd

    file to your computer.
    * Place the `kaggle.json` file in the correct directory, normally it is under your home directory
    `~/.kaggle`:

        ```bash
        mkdir ~/.kaggle
        mv ~/Downloads/kaggle.json ~/.kaggle
        ```
    * Install Kaggle CLI and download the data:

        ```bash
        pip install kaggle
        kaggle competitions download -c home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability
        unzip home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability.zip
        ```

### Install libraries
To use Ibis and IbisML with the DuckDB backend, you'll need to install the necessary packages:
```{.bash}
pip install 'ibis-framework[duckdb]' ibis-ml
```

When building models, ensure you have the required libraries installed:
```{.bash}
# PyTorch
pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning

# XGBoost and sklearn
pip install sklearn xgboost
```
## Data loading and processing
We'll use Ibis to read the parquet files (with the same data also available in CSV format)
 and perform the necessary processing for the next step.

::: {.callout-tip}
You can perform the same process with a different backend, such as

> Polars, Dask, BigQuery, Spark, or other Ibis-supported backends. Move the datasets to the

Author: I will remove Dask, Thanks

---

> title: "Using IbisML for a Kagge competition: credit risk model stability"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Using IbisML for a Kaggle competition: credit risk model stability"
```

author: "Jiting Xu"
date: "2024-07-25"
categories:
    - blog
    - machine learning
    - feature engineering
execute:
    freeze: auto
---

## Introduction

> In this post, we'll demonstrate how to use Ibis and IbisML end-to-end for a Kaggle competition -
> [Credit risk model stability](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we'll demonstrate how to use Ibis and IbisML end-to-end for the
[credit risk model stability Kaggle competition](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability).
```

> 1. Load data and perform feature engineering with Ibis on a duckdb backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Load data and perform feature engineering with Ibis on a DuckDB backend
```

Reviewer: Nit: You mention here that you do it on the DuckDB backend, but not for the next step; if anything, I think it's more interesting to note that you do the ML preprocessing on DuckDB (which people don't normally do, or know is possible).

2. Conduct last-mile ML data preprocessing with IbisML
3. Train two models using different frameworks:
    * An XGBoost model within a scikit-learn pipeline.
    * A neural network with PyTorch and PyTorch Lightning

The aim of this competition is to predict which clients are more likely to default on their
loans by using both internal and external data sources.

To get started with Ibis and IbisML, please refer to the websites:

> * [Ibis](https://ibis-project.org/): An open-source dataframe library that works with any data system.
> * [IbisML](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/): A library for building scalable ML pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Ibis](https://ibis-project.org/): An open-source dataframe library that works with any data system
* [IbisML](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/): A library for building scalable ML pipelines
```
Nit: For consistency with above bullets

## Prerequisites
To run this example, you'll need to download the data from Kaggle website with a Kaggle user account and install Ibis, IbisML, and the necessary modeling library.

### Download data
You need a Kaggle account to download the data. If you do not have one,
feel free to register one.

1. Option 1: Manual Download
     * Log into your Kaggle account and download all data from this
     [link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability/data),
     unzip the files, and save them to your local disk.
2. Option 2: Kaggle API

>     * Go to your Kaggle account settings: [Kaggle Account Settings](https://www.kaggle.com/account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Go to your [Kaggle account settings](https://www.kaggle.com/account).
```

    * Under the "API" section, click on "Create New API Token". This will download the `kaggle.json`
    file to your computer.
    * Place the `kaggle.json` file in the correct directory, normally it is under your home directory
    `~/.kaggle`:

        ```bash
        mkdir ~/.kaggle
        mv ~/Downloads/kaggle.json ~/.kaggle
        ```
    * Install Kaggle CLI and download the data:

        ```bash
        pip install kaggle
        kaggle competitions download -c home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability
        unzip home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability.zip
        ```

### Install libraries
To use Ibis and IbisML with the DuckDB backend, you'll need to install the necessary packages:
```{.bash}
pip install 'ibis-framework[duckdb]' ibis-ml
```

When building models, ensure you have the required libraries installed:
```{.bash}
# PyTorch
pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning

# XGBoost and sklearn

> pip install sklearn xgboost

Reviewer: Nit: Personal pet peeve is when you have the `pip install` broken into multiple steps; you could consider giving two options:

* `pip install 'ibis-framework[duckdb]' ibis-ml torch torchvision pytorch-lightning`
* `pip install 'ibis-framework[duckdb]' ibis-ml sklearn xgboost`

Nit: I prefer `xgboost[scikit-learn]` to `sklearn xgboost`, because that way you better guarantee compatibility.

Also, bit surprised `torchvision` is required here?

```
## Data loading and processing

> We'll use Ibis to read the parquet files (with the same data also available in CSV format)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use Ibis to read the Parquet files
```
Not sure mentioning the CSV files adds anything?

>  and perform the necessary processing for the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and perform the necessary processing for the next step.
```
Nit :)

::: {.callout-tip}
You can perform the same process with a different backend, such as
Polars, BigQuery, Spark, or other Ibis-supported backends. Move the datasets to the
desired database and set the Ibis backend using the reference: [Work with multiple
backends](https://ibis-project.org/how-to/input-output/multiple-backends).
:::

### Directory structure and tables
Since there are many data files, let's start by examining the directory structure and
tables within the train directory:

```bash
# Change this to your directory

> tree -L 2 /Users/claypot/Downloads/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability/parquet_files/train

Reviewer: Nit: Does it make sense to swap `claypot` references to `jiting` or something? Not really important in the grand scheme of things, but seems like an easy change. :)

├── train_applprev_1_1.parquet
├── train_applprev_2.parquet
├── train_base.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_1_0.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_1_1.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_1_3.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_0.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_1.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_10.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_2.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_3.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_4.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_5.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_6.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_7.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_8.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_a_2_9.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_b_1.parquet
├── train_credit_bureau_b_2.parquet
├── train_debitcard_1.parquet
├── train_deposit_1.parquet
├── train_other_1.parquet
├── train_person_1.parquet
├── train_person_2.parquet
├── train_static_0_0.parquet
├── train_static_0_1.parquet
├── train_static_cb_0.parquet
├── train_tax_registry_a_1.parquet
├── train_tax_registry_b_1.parquet
└── train_tax_registry_c_1.parquet
```

:::

The `train_base.parquet` file is the base table, while the others are feature tables.
Let's take a quick look at these tables.

#### Base table

> The base table (`train_base.parquet`) contains the unique id, a binary target flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base table (`train_base.parquet`) contains the unique ID, a binary target flag
```
Consistency with next line

and other information for the training samples. This unique ID will serve as the
linking key for joining with other feature tables.

* `case_id` - This is the unique identifier for each loan. You'll need this ID to
  join feature tables to the base table. There are about 1.5m unique loans.
* `date_decision` - This refers to the date when a decision was made regarding the
  approval of the loan.
* `WEEK_NUM` - This is the week number used for aggregation.
* `MONTH` - This column represents the month when the approval decision was made.
* `target` - This is the binary target flag, determined after a certain period based on
  whether or not the client defaulted on the specific loan.

#### Feature tables

> 

Reviewer: Nit: You have spaces after some of these headers and not after others; I'm surprised `prettier` doesn't complain.

The remaining files contain features, consisting of approximately 370 features from
previous loan applications and external data sources. Their definitions can be found

> in the file `feature_definitions.csv` from the competition website
> [link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability/data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the file `feature_definitions.csv` from the
[competition website](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability/data).
```

    Returns:
        ibis.Table: The processed Ibis table.
    """
    if is_regex:
        # Read and union multiple files
        chunks = []
        for path in glob(str(file_path)):
            chunk = ibis.read_parquet(path)
            # Transform table using IbisML Recipe
            chunk = data_type_recipes.fit(chunk).to_ibis(chunk)
            chunks.append(chunk)
        table = ibis.union(*chunks)
    else:
        # Read a single file
        table = ibis.read_parquet(file_path)
        # Transform table using IbisML
        table = data_type_recipes.fit(table).to_ibis(table)

    # Perform aggregation if depth is 1 or 2
    if depth in [1, 2]:
        table = agg_by_id(table)

    return table
```

Let's define two dictionaries, `train_data_store` and `test_data_store`, that organize and
store processed datasets for training and testing.

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to load all data into a dict"
train_data_store = {
    "df_base": read_and_process_files(TRAIN_DIR / "train_base.parquet"),
    "depth_0": [
        read_and_process_files(TRAIN_DIR / "train_static_cb_0.parquet"),

>         read_and_process_files(TRAIN_DIR / "train_static_0_*.parquet", is_regex=True),

Reviewer: Nit: Might consider some list comprehensions in this section. :D A lot of repetition.

#         read_and_process_files(TEST_DIR / "test_other_1.parquet", 1),
#         read_and_process_files(TEST_DIR / "test_person_1.parquet", 1),
#         read_and_process_files(TEST_DIR / "test_deposit_1.parquet", 1),
#         read_and_process_files(TEST_DIR / "test_debitcard_1.parquet", 1),
#     ],
#     "depth_2": [
#         read_and_process_files(TEST_DIR / "test_credit_bureau_b_2.parquet", 2),
#     ]
# }
```

Join all features data to base table:

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Define function to join feature tables to base table"
def join_data(df_base, depth_0, depth_1, depth_2):
    for i, df in enumerate(depth_0 + depth_1 + depth_2):
        df_base = df_base.join(
            df, "case_id", how="left", rname="{name}_right" + f"_{i}"
        )
    return df_base
```

Generate train and test datasets:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to generate train and test datasets"
df_train = join_data(**train_data_store)
# df_test = join_data(**test_data_store)
print(f"There is {df_train.count()} rows and {len(df_train.columns)} columns")
```
### Select features

> Since there are ~370 features, we'll only select part of good ones for this post:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since there are ~370 features, we'll only select a few of the good ones for this post:
```
Also, what does "good" mean? Maybe "informative" or "useful" would be a better word?

    "max_amount_1115A",
    # Amount of unpaid debt for existing contracts
    "max_debtpastduevalue_732A",
    "max_debtvalue_227A",
    "max_installmentamount_833A",
    "max_instlamount_892A",
    "max_numberofinstls_810L",
    "max_pmtnumpending_403L",
    "max_last180dayaveragebalance_704A",
    "max_last30dayturnover_651A",
    "max_openingdate_857D",
    "max_amount_416A",
    "max_amtdebitincoming_4809443A",
    "max_amtdebitoutgoing_4809440A",
    "max_amtdepositbalance_4809441A",
    "max_amtdepositincoming_4809444A",
    "max_amtdepositoutgoing_4809442A",
    "max_empl_industry_691L",
    "max_gender_992L",
    "max_housingtype_772L",
    "max_mainoccupationinc_384A",
    "max_incometype_1044T",
)

df_train.head()
```
Univariate analysis:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to describe the train dataset"
# take the first 10 columns
df_train[df_train.columns[:10]].describe()
```

## Last-mile data preprocessing

We will perform the following transformation before feeding the data to models:

* Missing value imputation
* Encoding categorical variables
* Handling date variables
* Handling outliers
* Scaling and normalization

::: {.callout-note}

> IbisML provides a set of transformations, you could find the roadmap in this github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IbisML provides a set of transformations; you can find the
```

> [thread](https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis-ml/issues/32) and the guides from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[roadmap for these on GitHub](https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis-ml/issues/32). The [IbisML website](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/)
```

> IbisML [website](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also includes tutorials and API documentation.
```

    )
    / (60 * 60 * 24)
    for col in date_cols
}
days_to_decision_step = ml.Mutate(days_to_decision_expr)
```
Extract information from the date columns:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to extract day and week info from date columns"
# dow and month is set to catagoery
expand_date_step = ml.ExpandDate(ml.date(), ["week", "day"])
```

### Handle outliers
Capping outliers using `z-score` method:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to cap outliers for selected columns"
step_handle_outliers = ml.HandleUnivariateOutliers(
    ["max_amount_1115A", "max_overdueamountmax_950A"],
    method="z-score",
    treatment="capping",
    deviation_factor=3,
)
```

### Construct recipe

We'll construct a [Recipe](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/reference/core.html#ibis_ml.Recipe)
by chaining all transformation steps, which will be applied to the train and test datasets later.

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to construct the recipe"
last_mile_preprocessing = ml.Recipe(
    expand_date_step,
    ml.Drop(ml.date()),
    # handle string columns
    ohe_step,
    ml.Drop(ml.string()),
    # handle numeric cols

>     # Capping outliers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # capping outliers
```
For consistency

    step_handle_outliers,
    step_impute_median,
    ml.ScaleMinMax(ml.numeric()),

>     # Fill missing value

Reviewer: Well, this is capitalized. I guess, figure out if you want to capitalize them or lowercase them.

    ml.FillNA(ml.numeric(), 0),
    ml.Cast(ml.numeric(), "float32"),
)
print(f"Last-mile preprocessing recipe: \n{last_mile_preprocessing}")
```

## Modeling

After completing data preprocessing with Ibis and IbisML, we proceed to the modeling
phase. Here are two approaches:

> 1. Use IbisML as a independent data preprocessing component and hand off the data to downstream modeling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use IbisML as an independent data preprocessing component and hand off the data to downstream modeling
```

>     frameworks with various output formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   frameworks with various output formats:
```

     - Pandas Dataframe
     - Numpy Array
     - Polars Dataframe
     - Dask Dataframe
     - xgboost.DMatrix
     - Pyarrow Table
2. Use IbisML recipes as components within an sklearn Pipeline and

>     train models similarly to how you would do with sklearn pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   train models similarly to how you would do with sklearn pipeline.
```

> 2. Use IbisML recipes as components within an sklearn Pipeline and
>     train models similarly to how you would do with sklearn pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use IbisML recipes as components within a scikit-learn pipeline and
   train models as you normally would with scikit-learn.
```

We will build an XGBoost model within a scikit-learn pipeline, and a neural network classifier using the output transformed by IbisML recipes.

### Train and test data splitting

We'll use hashing on the unique key to consistently split rows to different groups.
Hashing is robust to underlying changes in the data, such as adding, deleting, or
reordering rows. This deterministic process ensures that each data point is always
assigned to the same split, thereby enhancing reproducibility.

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to split data into train and test"

> import random

Reviewer: Do you want to use the feature you implemented?

random.seed(222)
random_key = str(random.getrandbits(256))

# Put 3/4 of the data into the training set
df_train = df_train.mutate(
    train_flag=(df_train.case_id.cast(dt.str) + random_key).hash().abs() % 4 < 3
)
# split the dataset by train_flag
train_data = df_train[df_train.train_flag].drop("train_flag")
test_data = df_train[~df_train.train_flag].drop("train_flag")

X_train = train_data.drop("target")
y_train = train_data.target.cast(dt.float32).name("target")

X_test = test_data.drop("target")
y_test = test_data.target.cast(dt.float32).name("target")

print(f"train dataset size = {X_train.count()} \ntest data size = {X_test.count()}")
```

::: {.callout-warning}
Hashing provides a consistent but pseudo-random distribution of data, which
may not precisely align with the specified train/test ratio. While hash codes
ensure reproducibility, they don't guarantee an exact split. Due to statistical variance,
you might find a slight imbalance in the distribution, resulting in marginally more or
fewer samples in either the training or test dataset than the target percentage. This
minor deviation from the intended ratio is a normal consequence of hash-based
partitioning.
:::

> ### xgboost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### XGBoost
```

In this section, we integrate XGBoost into a scikit-learn pipeline to create a
streamlined workflow for training and evaluating our model.

We'll set up a pipeline that includes two components:

> * preprocessing: This step applies the `last_mile_preprocessing` for final data preprocessing.
> * model: This step applies the `xgb.XGBClassifier()` to train the XGBoost model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Preprocessing**: This step applies the `last_mile_preprocessing` for final data preprocessing.
* **Modeling**: This step applies the `xgb.XGBClassifier()` to train the XGBoost model.
```
I think this is more consistent with what you had somewhere above?

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to built and fit the pipeline"
from sklearn.pipeline import Pipeline
from sklearn.metrics import roc_auc_score
import xgboost as xgb

model = xgb.XGBClassifier(
    n_estimators=100,
    max_depth=5,
    learning_rate=0.05,
    subsample=0.8,
    colsample_bytree=0.8,
    random_state=42,
)
# Create the pipeline with the last mile ML recipes and the model
pipe = Pipeline([("last_mile_recipes", last_mile_preprocessing), ("model", model)])
# Fit the pipeline on the training data
pipe.fit(X_train, y_train)
```

> Let's evaluate the model on the test data using gini index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's evaluate the model on the test data using Gini index:
```

```{python}
#| code-fold: true

> #| code-summary: "Show code to calculate gini for the test dataset"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#| code-summary: "Show code to calculate the Gini score for the test dataset"
```

y_pred_proba = pipe.predict_proba(X_test)[:, 1]
# Calculate the AUC score
auc = roc_auc_score(y_test, y_pred_proba)

# Calculate the Gini score
gini_score = 2 * auc - 1
print(f"gini_score for test dataset: {gini_score:,}")
```

::: {.callout-note}

> The competition is evaluated using a gini stability metric. For more information, check this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The competition is evaluated using a Gini stability metric. For more information, see the
```

> [link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability/overview/evaluation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[evaluation guidelines](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability/overview/evaluation).
```

:::

> Let's force the garbage collection to release unreferenced memory.

Reviewer: Nit: Is this necessary?

Author: I will remove this

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to force garbage collection to free unreferenced memory"
import gc

del y_pred_proba
del model
del pipe
gc.collect()
```

### Neural network classifier

Build a neural network classifier using PyTorch and PyTorch Lightning.

::: {.callout-warning}
It is not recommended to build a neural network classifier for this competition, we are building
it solely for demonstration purposes.
:::

We'll demonstrate how to build a model by directly passing the data to it. IbisML recipes can output
data in various formats, making it compatible with different modeling frameworks.
Let's first train the recipe:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to train the IbisML recipe"
# Train preprocessing recipe using training dataset
last_mile_preprocessing.fit(X_train, y_train)
```

In the previous cell, we trained the recipe using the training dataset. Now, we will
transform both the train and test datasets using the same recipe. The default output format

> is `Numpy Array`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a NumPy array.
```

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to transform the datasets using fitted recipe"
# Transform train and test dataset using IbisML recipe
X_train_transformed = last_mile_preprocessing.transform(X_train)
X_test_transformed = last_mile_preprocessing.transform(X_test)
print(f"train data shape = {X_train_transformed.shape}")
print(f"test data shape = {X_test_transformed.shape}")
```

> Let's define a neural network classifier using pytorch and pytorch lighting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's define a neural network classifier using PyTorch and PyTorch Lightning:
```

nn_classifier = NeuralNetClassifier(input_dim=X_train_transformed.shape[1])

y_train_array = y_train.to_pandas().to_numpy().astype(np.float32)
x_train_tensor = torch.from_numpy(X_train_transformed)
y_train_tensor = torch.from_numpy(y_train_array)
train_dataset = TensorDataset(x_train_tensor, y_train_tensor)

y_test_array = y_test.to_pandas().to_numpy().astype(np.float32)
X_test_tensor = torch.from_numpy(X_test_transformed)
y_test_tensor = torch.from_numpy(y_test_array)
val_dataset = TensorDataset(X_test_tensor, y_test_tensor)

train_loader = DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)
val_loader = DataLoader(val_dataset, batch_size=32, shuffle=False)

# Initialize a Trainer
trainer = Trainer(max_epochs=2)
print(nn_classifier)
```

Let's train the classifier:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to train the pytorch classifier"
# Train the model
trainer.fit(nn_classifier, train_loader, val_loader)
```

Let's use the trained model to make a prediction:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to predict using the trained pytorch classifier"
y_pred = nn_classifier.predict_proba(X_test_tensor[:10])
y_pred
```

> 

Reviewer: Would love to see some sort of conclusion/takeaways? One thing I recall you mentioning is that the code seemed cleaner/simpler. It might be interesting to point out that we're scaling the preprocessing on DuckDB (a selling point).

---
title: "Using IbisML and DuckDB for a Kaggle competition: credit risk model stability"
author: "Jiting Xu"

> date: "2024-08-15"

Reviewer 2: can you update to 2024-08-21? let's publish and promote tomorrow

categories:
    - blog

>     - DuckDB

Reviewer 2: DuckDB -> duckdb for consistency w/ other blogs

    - machine learning
    - feature engineering

> execute:

Reviewer 2: this isn't necessary, as it's the default for blogs

    freeze: auto
---

## Introduction
In this post, we'll demonstrate how to use Ibis and IbisML end-to-end for the
[credit risk model stability Kaggle competition](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-model-stability).

1. Load data and perform feature engineering on DuckDB backend using IbisML
2. Perform last-mile ML data preprocessing on DuckDB backend using IbisML
3. Train two models using different frameworks:
    * An XGBoost model within a scikit-learn pipeline.

>     * A neural network with PyTorch and PyTorch Lightning

Reviewer 2: bullet point missing a period (for consistency w/ others)

    "max_installmentamount_833A",
    "max_instlamount_892A",
    "max_numberofinstls_810L",
    "max_pmtnumpending_403L",
    "max_last180dayaveragebalance_704A",
    "max_last30dayturnover_651A",
    "max_openingdate_857D",
    "max_amount_416A",
    "max_amtdebitincoming_4809443A",
    "max_amtdebitoutgoing_4809440A",
    "max_amtdepositbalance_4809441A",
    "max_amtdepositincoming_4809444A",
    "max_amtdepositoutgoing_4809442A",
    "max_empl_industry_691L",
    "max_gender_992L",
    "max_housingtype_772L",
    "max_mainoccupationinc_384A",
    "max_incometype_1044T",
)

df_train.head()
```
Univariate analysis:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to describe the train dataset"
# take the first 10 columns
df_train[df_train.columns[:10]].describe()
```

## Last-mile data preprocessing
We will perform the following transformation before feeding the data to models:

* Missing value imputation
* Encoding categorical variables
* Handling date variables
* Handling outliers
* Scaling and normalization

::: {.callout-note}
IbisML provides a set of transformations. You can find the
[roadmap](https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis-ml/issues/32).

> The [IbisML website](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/) also includes tutorials and API documentation..

Reviewer 2: two periods at the end here

    method="z-score",
    treatment="capping",
    deviation_factor=3,
)
```

### Construct recipe
We'll construct the last mile preprocessing [recipe](https://ibis-project.github.io/ibis-ml/reference/core.html#ibis_ml.Recipe)
by chaining all transformation steps, which will be fitted to the training dataset and later applied test datasets.

```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to construct the recipe"
last_mile_preprocessing = ml.Recipe(
    expand_date_step,
    ml.Drop(ml.date()),
    # handle string columns
    ohe_step,
    ml.Drop(ml.string()),
    # handle numeric cols
    # capping outliers
    step_handle_outliers,
    step_impute_median,
    ml.ScaleMinMax(ml.numeric()),
    # fill missing value
    ml.FillNA(ml.numeric(), 0),
    ml.Cast(ml.numeric(), "float32"),
)
print(f"Last-mile preprocessing recipe: \n{last_mile_preprocessing}")
```

## Modeling
After completing data preprocessing with Ibis and IbisML, we proceed to the modeling
phase. Here are two approaches:

* Use IbisML as a independent data preprocessing component and hand off the data to downstream modeling
frameworks with various output formats:

>      - Pandas Dataframe

Reviewer 2: Pandas -> pandas (per their style guide, even if at the beginning of the sentence)

# initialize a Trainer
trainer = Trainer(max_epochs=2)
print(nn_classifier)
```

Let's train the classifier:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to train the pytorch classifier"
# train the model
trainer.fit(nn_classifier, train_loader, val_loader)
```

Let's use the trained model to make a prediction:
```{python}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show code to predict using the trained pytorch classifier"
y_pred = nn_classifier.predict_proba(X_test_tensor[:10])
y_pred
```

## Takeaways
IbisML provides a powerful suite of last-mile preprocessing transformations, including an advanced column selector
that streamlines the selection and transformation of specific columns in your dataset.

It integrates seamlessly with scikit-learn pipelines, allowing you to incorporate preprocessing recipes directly into
your workflow. Additionally, IbisML supports a variety of data output formats such as Dask, NumPy, and Arrow, ensuring
compatibility with different machine learning frameworks.

Another key advantage of IbisML is its flexibility in performing data preprocessing across multiple backends, including

> DuckDB, Polars, Spark, BigQuery, and other Ibis-supported platforms. This enables you to preprocess your training data

Reviewer 2: I would change "Ibis-supported platforms" to just "Ibis backends"
